Internet of things (IoT)
Internet of Things (IoT) describes physical objects (or groups of such objects) that are embedded in sensors, processing capabilities, software, and other technologies and that connect and exchange data with other devices and systems over the Internet or other networks of communication. 
The idea of adding sensors and intelligence to basic objects was debated in the 1980s and 1990s (and there are possibly some much older ancestors), but aside from some early projects, including an internet-connected automaton, progress was slow. because the technology was not ready. The chips were too big and bulky, and there was no way for the objects to communicate effectively. It took 4,444 processors, cheap enough and energy efficient to be nearly disposable, before it finally became affordable to connect billions of devices. The introduction of low-power RFID tags that can communicate wirelessly solved some of these problems along with the increasing availability of broadband Internet and mobile and wireless networks. The introduction of IPv6, which, among other things, should provide enough IP addresses for all the devices the world (or even this galaxy) will ever need, was also a necessary step in scaling the IoT. 
 Kevin Ashton coined the term "Internet of Things" in 1999, although it took at least another decade for the technology to catch up with the vision. 
 Adding RFID tags to expensive devices to track their location was one of the first applications of IoT. However, since then, the cost of adding sensors and an internet connection to objects has continued to fall, and experts predict that this basic functionality could one day cost as little as 10 cents, so almost anything can be connected to. Internet. 
 The IoT was initially more interesting for business and manufacturing, where its application is sometimes referred to as machine-to-machine (M2M), but the focus now is on filling our homes and offices with smart devices and turning them into something that is relevant. To almost everyone. Early proposals for Internet-connected devices included "blobjects" (objects that blog and record data about themselves on the Internet), ubiquitous computing (or "ubicomp"), invisible computing, and ubiquitous computing.
An IoT ecosystem is made up of web-enabled smart devices that use embedded systems such as processors, sensors, and communication hardware to collect, send, and process data received from their environment. IoT devices share collected sensor data by connecting to an IoT gateway or other edge device, where the data is sent to the cloud for analysis or analysed locally. Sometimes these devices communicate with other related devices and respond to the information they receive from each other. The devices do most of the work without human intervention, although people can interact with the devices, for example, to configure them, give them instructions or access the data.
The internet of things helps people live and work smarter, as well as gain complete control over their lives. In addition to offering smart devices to automate homes, IoT is essential to business. IoT provides businesses with a real-time look into how their systems really work, delivering insights into everything from the performance of machines to supply chain and logistics operations. 
 IoT enables companies to automate processes and reduce labour costs. It also cuts down on waste and improves service delivery, making it less expensive to manufacture and deliver goods, as well as offering transparency into customer transactions. 
 As such, IoT is one of the most important technologies in everyday life and will continue to gain momentum as more companies realize the potential of connected devices to remain competitive.